[[reindex-upgrade]]
=== Reindex to upgrade

Elasticsearch is able to use indices created in the previous major version
only.  For instance, Elasticsearch 5.x can use indices created in
Elasticsearch 2.x, but not those created in Elasticsearch 1.x or before.

NOTE: Elasticsearch 5.x nodes will fail to start in the presence of too old indices.

If you are running an Elasticsearch 2.x cluster which contains indices that
were created before 2.x, you will either need to delete those old indices or
to reindex them before upgrading to 5.x.  See <<reindex-upgrade-inplace>>.

If you are running an Elasticsearch 1.x cluster, you have two options:

* First upgrade to Elasticsearch 2.4.x, reindex the old indices, then upgrade
  to 5.x. See <<reindex-upgrade-inplace>>.

* Create a new 5.x cluster and use reindex-from-remote to import indices
  directly from the 1.x cluster. See <<reindex-upgrade-remote>>.

.Time-based indices and retention periods
*******************************************

For many use cases with time-based indices, you will not need to worry about
carrying old 1.x indices with you to 5.x.  Data in time-based indices usually
becomes less interesting as time passes. Old indices can be deleted once they
fall outside of your retention period.

Users in this position can continue to use 2.x until all old 1.x indices have
been deleted, then upgrade to 5.x directly.

*******************************************


[[reindex-upgrade-inplace]]
==== Reindex in place

The easiest way to reindex old (1.x) indices in place is to use the
https://github.com/elastic/elasticsearch-migration/tree/2.x[Elasticsearch
Migration Plugin].  You will need to upgrade to Elasticsearch 2.3.x or 2.4.x
first.

The reindex utility provided in the migration plugin does the following:

* Creates a new index with the Elasticsearch version appended to the old index
  name (e.g. `my_index-2.4.1`), copying the mappings and settings from the old
  index.  Refresh is disabled on the new index and the number of replicas is
  set to `0` for efficient reindexing.

* Sets the old index to read only to ensure that no data is written to the
  old index.

* Reindexes all documents from the old index to the new index.

* Resets the `refresh_interval` and `number_of_replicas` to the values
  used in the old index, and waits for the index to become green.

* Adds any aliases that existed on the old index to the new index.

* Deletes the old index.

* Adds an alias to the new index with the old index name, e.g. alias
  `my_index` points to index `my_index-2.4.1`.

At the end of this process, you will have a new 2.x index which can be used
by an Elasticsearch 5.x cluster.

[[reindex-upgrade-remote]]
==== Upgrading with reindex-from-remote

If you are running a 1.x cluster and would like to migrate directly to 5.x
without first migrating to 2.x, you can do so using
<<reindex-from-remote,reindex-from-remote>>.

[WARNING]
=============================================

Elasticsearch includes backwards compatibility code that allows indices from
the previous major version to be upgraded to the current major version.  By
moving directly from Elasticsearch 1.x to 5.x, you will have to solve any
backwards compatibility issues yourself.

=============================================

You will need to set up a 5.x cluster alongside your existing 1.x cluster.
The 5.x cluster needs to have access to the REST API of the 1.x cluster.

For each 1.x index that you want to transfer to the 5.x cluster, you will need
to:

* Create a new index in 5.x with the appropriate mappings and settings.  Set
  the `refresh_interval` to `-1` and set `number_of_replicas` to `0` for
  faster reindexing.

* Use <<reindex-from-remote,reindex-from-remote>> to pull documents from the
  1.x index into the new 5.x index.

* If you run the reindex job in the background (with `wait_for_completion` set
  to `false`), the reindex request will return a `task_id` which can be used to
  monitor progress of the reindex job in the <<tasks,task API>>:
  `GET _tasks/TASK_ID`.

* Once reindex has completed, set the `refresh_interval` and
  `number_of_replicas` to the desired values (the defaults are `30s` and `1`
  respectively).

* Once the new index has finished replication, you can delete the old index.

The 5.x cluster can start out small, and you can gradually move nodes from the
1.x cluster to the 5.x cluster as you migrate indices across.
